All right so let's do a second problem on the entrails of concavity and inflection points.
So let's find the intervals of concavity and inflection points if any for f of x equals x squared plus
33.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so let's go ahead and do it together.
So remember we're finding intervals of concavity and inflection points.
If we have our mnemonic sac we know that we need the second derivative because we're finding concavity
and inflection points.
All right.
So we need to get the second derivative.
The first step is to get the first derivative.
So first derivative of this is bring down dictators.
That's 2 x and less powerful leader.
In this case will mark the one plus the derivative of 33 which is zero.
In other words this is 2 x right.
That is the first derivative.
Now let's get the second derivative.
So we have constant multiple to two and then for the X we bring down a dictator which has a 1 x 2 0.
I remember one times X to 0 is just one.
So we have two times on equals two.
So when we put it down here or a second derivative equals two.
This is interesting because typically our second derivative is something with axes.
In this case it's two.
How can this be.
Well what if we went to the next step to find the critical numbers for the second derivative.
So we want to find the numbers that make the second derivative either equal to zero or undefined.
But do you see a problem here.
The second derivative is always true.
It cannot be undefined and it cannot be equal to zero.
So because this can never change it's always going to be two.
There are no critical numbers
so there are no critical numbers.
What happens when we go to Step Three with our number line 2.
Well there's nothing to test.
Laughter and right of the two we have no critical numbers.
That means that this function f of x has a positive second derivative.
All over the place to the left of the two and to the right of the two.
Right.
So this is always positive What does that tell you that tells you that this function because it has
a positive second derivative is always concave up right.
It never changes to concave down because this second derivative is always positive because it's always
two.
It's always positive.
It never changes.
This means that this function actually from negative infinity up to positive infinity is concave up.
You see that concave up for all x values from negative infinity to positive infinity.
So let me repeat it once again.
Because the second derivative is always positive.
It's a numbers so it never changes.
There are no critical values that we can find because this too is never equal to zero or undefined.
For that reason there's nothing really to plug in and it's always a positive second derivative.
In other words the function is always concave up.
So of course the functions always concave up.
That means that there are no inflection points right.
The concavity never changes.
It's always up.
So no inflection points and always concave up to be more formal.
We say that from negative infinity to positive infinity in this interval the function is concave up.
And in fact just to give you a quick visual.
This function looks something like this.
It is just a parabola.
It goes up to here.
You see how this function is always concave up.
So it's always opening up towards the top.
This agrees with what we got here.
Always concave up and no inflection points.
So when your second derivative is a number if it's positive then it's always concave up and if it's
negative then the function is always concave down.
All right.
That is the main takeaway because the second derivative is not changing.
There are no critical points that we can test and that is why this function f of x is always concave
up.